Hey, everybody, welcome back to Boost
Your Income with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is very exciting, because not
only are we coding a new section in HTML,
but we're actually gonna be
introducing you to CSS sprites,
which is something as instructor and
student, we have not done before.
So, check it out.
[MUSIC]
All right everybody, welcome back.
Today we're gonna code the cross
feature section right here.
Sorry about that.
Sometimes when I code I get
a random Australian accent.
So right here we have six columns
using the Bootstrap grid.
We have a blue background.
Nothing crazy but the special part about
this lecture are these icons right here.
They're actually sprites or
a single sprite, and that's something as
a student- instructor relationship,
we haven't come this far yet.
So we're doing really well and we're
gonna learn how to do that right now.
I think you will like it, check it out.
Jump into your HTML, in your course.
Sorry about that,
I almost went Australian on me again.
Course features, we're gonna start
doing some HTML id=course-features and
we're going to close that
up with a comment and
if class=container.
All right, and here we're going to do our
section header div class=section-header,
awesome There it is.
All right, image, gotta do our image.
Assets/img/icon-rocket.png.
Alt will be rocket because
it is a graphic of a rocket.
Level H2, level two heading course
features, whoops, features, perfect.
Under that, we're gonna do a row.
As usually,
you can kind of see a pattern now.
At this point with all these sections,
we're using similar mark up.
OK, don't forget to save.
We're gonna do a column.
And I wanna show you something.
See how long it took me
to type all that out?
I know it only took me about two or
three seconds I cuz I'm using Coda two,
I use a custom clip to, I use custom clips
to help me speed up my coding even more.
So, instead of me writing all of this all
I have to do is this, call and then tab.
Then it just asks me for
the size, so small.
The hit tab, and then I'm using two.
So there it is, that's all I had to do.
So from here, from this point forward,
I'll probably do that,
because I like fast coding.
And if you're using Coda as well,
you can create a custom clip.
I'll just show you really super quick.
Right here clips and you can add
your own clip down at the bottom.
You can add the quick little plus sign and
you can add your own clip.
My custom column clip looks like this,
here it is.
Woops.
Looks like this, called grid element.
I just added the HTML, and
I added a place holder called size, and
a place holder called,
well just the pound sign, and
then the tab was the key,
the trigger, and then I saved that.
And then whenever I type out Call,
it pulls that up for
me, helps me speed up my coding.
Just a little tip there
if you're using Coda 2,
which I certainly hope you
are because it's the best, awesome.
I class, this is where we're
gonna add our own custom icons.
So, ci, we're gonna use that class and
it's a custom class we're gonna
have to style called custom icon.
That's what I'm calling it Ci,
and then ci-computer I'm using the same
meaning conventions as Font Awesome.
So FA for Font Awesome,
CI for Custom Icon.
H4, this will say,
lifetime access to 80+ lectures.
I'm gonna copy and paste all of this
markup and just change some text.
So instead of computer,
the second one will be watch.
And the text will be ten plus
hours of HD video content.
Paste that out again instead of computer,
this one will be calendar.
The text will be,
30-day money back guarantee.
Paste that out again.
This next one will be community,
and the text will be
Access to a community of
like-minded students.
For some reason I always
type the last word wrong.
Next one, instead of computer,
instructor, that's me.
Direct access to the instructor and
then the last one will be ci device.
And that will say excessive
content on your mobile devices.
Look at that, I got my last word correct.
Save that.
Let's just see what that looks like.
So here we go.
It's pretty much there.
It's all centered because
we have the section header,
the correct graphic and some text.
But we're missing our icons, those things.
So this is where we do some CSS.
Jump in your CSS.
First thing's first, let's give that
section the correct background color.
So that background color, or
that ID is course features,
background will be 3D four-two-four-nine.
And then the color will be
white because right now,
the color is actually dark, but
we're going to be on a blue background, so
it needs to be white in
order to see it properly.
And then text align center,
because these little sections,
these little blurbs of
text aren't centered.
They are left aligned,
we want them center aligned, save it.
Let's see if that did the job, perfect.
Now let's work on our sprite.
So, a sprit, do you know what a sprite is?
If yes, awesome.
You should be excited to do this and
get some practice.
If not, even more awesome because
this will blow your mind.
So in here,
I have an image called icon-sprite.
You can hardly see it here, but
there are six icons side-by-side.
I wonder if I could show you here, better.
There you go, that's a little bit better.
You could see six icons.
I created a PSD, and
then I exported it into a graphic,
where I put my custom icons side-by-side.
And they're specific widths apart, they're
equal widths, each of the icons, and
they're side by side.
This way, all I have to do in a sprite
is give the section I want to
have a background image and
shift the background position to
display whatever icon I want to show.
To make more sense let's just jump in and
do it.
All right, here in our CSS, you're
going to want to create a new section.
Just a little HTML section.
I'm gonna call custom icon sprites.
This is just so
you have Easy reference to this CSS.
So we're going to select the i
tag with the class of ci.
Display inline-block.
The height of these icons are 40 pixels,
and
the width is also 40 pixels,
perfect square.
Background URL we're looking for
../img/icon-sprite.png' and
then no-repeat.
We're not repeating this at all.
So this is just all of the icon.
The iHTML tags with a class of ci
will have this background image,
but we only want to display
a specific section of the sprite.
And the benefit of the sprite is we're
only loading one image rather than six
separate images, or
you could even do this with 1000 images.
Sites like Facebook for all the little
icons, like the thumbs up for
the like and the little comment
bubbles and little avatar icons,
and arrows and everything I got,
that's in a sprite.
So it's only loading one single image for
all of those little UI graphics.
Rather than a thousand images,
that takes up a lot of loading time,
to load all those images.
Where as this only loads one image and the
CSS takes hardly any loading time at all.
All right, so now we're gonna
style specific classes, so Ci.
Also the class of CI computers.
So you see how these are connected?
Because this is a very specific selector.
So CI, no spaces here, just ci.cicomputer.
I'm gonna give a couple tabs here.
And background position,
this is the first one, 0, 0.
Because the computer is
the first graphic in the sprite,
background position is
top left essentially.
All right, ci.ci-watch, tab in there.
This background-position will be -40px and
zero, and that's because the X axis,
-40 means I'm pulling the graphic
to the left 40 pixels,
which means,
in my 40 by 40 window that I've set
it's going to now display
the second icon in my sprite.
So think of that 40 by 40
window in my height and width.
Think of it literally as a window and
then behind it I have a big sheet
of paper With six images on it.
And when I say negative 40, I'm moving
that paper negative 40 pixels to the left,
which now displays the second graphic.
Hopefully that makes sense.
Why don't we just check it out and
see what we have so far?
Well, would you look here.
So you can see right now they
are all displaying top and left.
So these ones are incorrect, but
at least the image is being pulled in.
But look here, our watch.
It's showing up.
Let me just show you what I mean by the,
think of the window and
the paper when I talk about that.
If I instead of saying negative 40,
what if I said negative 30 and
I don't go all the way over.
What will happen?
You could see part of both.
The computer and the watch.
So I didn't pull this to the left enough.
So I'm gonna say 40, and
that will be perfect.
Copy that and past that.
I'm just gonna change this value to
calendar, and that now will be 80.
Hopefully that makes sense.
Now you can just go ahead and just add the
rest, cuz it's simple math at this point.
Calendar, we have community, and
that one will obviously be another 40,
which will be 120.
Let's just go ahead and
change these values here.
This will be 160 and this one will be 200.
Change this last one here to device oh,
and one more.
This one will be instructor.
Go ahead and save those, and
all your icons will work perfect.
Boom, there they all are, computer, watch,
calendar, community, instructor, device.
There is the Course Features section.
Good job,
you learned how to do CSS sprites.
Finally, I revealed the secret.
It's very easy, but it's super-useful.
I love using them and
I'll see you in the next lecture,
because we're gonna be coding our
final project features section.
Very simple section but
I'll see you there.
[MUSIC]